Wrangler v4 migration guide (#18726)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/wrangler/migration/update-v3-to-v4.mdx

---
title: Migrate from Wrangler v3 to v4
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 1

---
Wrangler v4 is a major release focused on updates to underlying systems and dependencies, along with improvements to keep Wrangler commands consistent and clear. While many users should expect a no-op upgrade, the following sections outline  significant changes and steps for migrating where necessary. 

### Summary of changes
* **Updated Node.js Support Policy:**

> Node.js v16, which reached End-of-Life in 2022, is no longer supported in Wrangler v4. Wrangler now follows Node.js's [official support lifecycle](https://nodejs.org/en/about/previous-releases). 

Reviewer: Could this be slightly reworded to make it clear it refers to the versions of Node you can run Wrangler in rather than the version of Node that Wrangler supports (which to me potentially implies that it'd work in a Worker)?

> - **Updated Node.js Support Policy:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Updated Node.js support policy:**
```
this is to make the capitalization scheme consistent across the bullet points

* **Commands default to local mode**: All commands now run in local mode by default, requiring a `--remote` flag for API queries, 

> * **Changes to KV command output formats**: `wrangler kv list` now outputs data in a format compatible with `wrangler kv bulk delete.` 

Reviewer: We can remove this

> - **esbuild Version Upgrade**: Wrangler v4 uses [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) to bundle Worker code before deploying it, and was previously pinned to esbuild v0.17.19. Wrangler v4 uses esbuild v0.24, which could impact dynamic wildcard imports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **esbuild version upgrade**: Wrangler v4 uses [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) to bundle Worker code before deploying it, and was previously pinned to esbuild v0.17.19. Wrangler v4 uses esbuild v0.24, which could impact dynamic wildcard imports.
```

or if the lack of a capital at the front is unnerving:

```suggestion
- **Upgraded esbuild version**: Wrangler v4 uses [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) to bundle Worker code before deploying it, and was previously pinned to esbuild v0.17.19. Wrangler v4 uses esbuild v0.24, which could impact dynamic wildcard imports.
```

again this is to make the capitalization scheme consistent across the bullet points

- **Commands default to local mode**: All commands that can run in either local or remote mode now default to local, requiring a `--remote` flag for API queries.

> - **Deprecated commands and configurations removed:** Legacy commands, flags, and configurations have been removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Deprecated commands and configurations removed:** Legacy commands, flags, and configurations are removed.
```

## Detailed Changes 

### Updated Node.js Support Policy 

Wrangler now supports only Node.js versions that align with [Node.js's official lifecycle](https://nodejs.org/en/about/previous-releases): 

> * **Supported**: Current, Active LTS, Maintenance LTS

Reviewer: Is it worth calling out that this currently means 18, 20, 22, but we'll be dropping 18 relatively soon?

> ### Updated Node.js Support Policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updated Node.js support policy
```

* **No longer supported:** Node.js v16 (EOL in 2022)

> Wrangler tests no longer run on v16, and users still on this version may encounter unsupported behavior. Users still using Node.js v16 must upgrade to a supported version (v18 or higher) to continue receiving support and compatibility with Wrangler. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wrangler tests no longer run on v16, and users still on this version may encounter unsupported behavior. Users still using Node.js v16 must upgrade to a supported version (currently v18 or higher) to continue receiving support and compatibility with Wrangler. 
```

### esbuild Version Upgrade

> Wrangler upgraded esbuild from **v0.17.19** to **v0.24**, bringing improvements (such as the ability to use the `using` keyword with RPC) and changes to bundling behavior: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wrangler v4 upgraded esbuild from **v0.17.19** to **v0.24**, bringing improvements (such as the ability to use the `using` keyword with RPC) and changes to bundling behavior: 
```

> Wrangler tests no longer run on v16, and users still on this version may encounter unsupported behavior. Users still using Node.js v16 must upgrade to a supported version (currently v18 or higher) to continue receiving support and compatibility with Wrangler.

Reviewer 3: Is it worth calling out that, under this policy, Node.js 18 will no longer be supported as of April?

Reviewer 2: i think we should take out the reference to v18, otherwise this doc become outdated once v18 is no longer supported

> Wrangler tests no longer run on v16, and users still on this version may encounter unsupported behavior. Users still using Node.js v16 must upgrade to a supported version (currently v18 or higher) to continue receiving support and compatibility with Wrangler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wrangler tests no longer run on v16, and users still on this version may encounter unsupported behavior. Users still using Node.js v16 must upgrade to a supported version  to continue receiving support and compatibility with Wrangler.
```

> ### esbuild Version Upgrade

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### esbuild version upgrade
```

or 

```suggestion
### Upgraded esbuild version
```

> Wrangler v4 upgraded esbuild from **v0.17.19** to **v0.24**, bringing improvements (such as the ability to use the `using` keyword with RPC) and changes to bundling behavior:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wrangler v4 upgrades esbuild from **v0.17.19** to **v0.24**, bringing improvements (such as the ability to use the `using` keyword with RPC) and changes to bundling behavior:
```

- **Dynamic imports:** Wildcard imports (for example, `import('./data/' + kind + '.json')`) now automatically include all matching files in the bundle.

Users relying on wildcard dynamic imports may see unwanted files bundled. Prior to esbuild v0.19, `import` statements with dynamic paths ( like `import('./data/' + kind + '.json')`) did not bundle all files matches the glob pattern (`*.json`) . Only files explicitly referenced or included using `find_additional_modules` were bundled. With esbuild v0.19, wildcard imports now automatically bundle all files matching the glob pattern. This could result in unwanted files being bundled, so users might want to avoid wildcard dynamic imports and use explicit imports instead.

### Commands default to local mode

> All commands now run in **local mode by default.** Wrangler has many commands for accessing resources like KV and R2, but the commands were previously inconsistent in whether they run in a local or remote environment. For example, D1 defaults to querying a local datastore, and requires the `--remote` flag to query via the API. KV, on the other hand, previously defaulted to querying via the API (implicitly using the `--remote` flag) and required a `--local` flag to query a local datastore. In order to make the behavior consistent across Wrangler, each command now uses the `--local` flag by default, and will require an explicit `--remote` flag to query via the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All commands now run in **local mode by default.** Wrangler has many commands for accessing resources like KV and R2, but the commands were previously inconsistent in whether they ran in a local or remote environment. For example, D1 defaults to querying a local datastore, and requires the `--remote` flag to query via the API. KV, on the other hand, previously defaulted to querying via the API (implicitly using the `--remote` flag) and required a `--local` flag to query a local datastore. In order to make the behavior consistent across Wrangler, each command now uses the `--local` flag by default, and will require an explicit `--remote` flag to query via the API.
```

For example:

- **Previous Behavior (Wrangler v3):** `wrangler kv get` queried remotely by default.
- **New Behavior (Wrangler v4):** `wrangler kv get` queries locally unless `--remote` is specified.

Those using `wrangler kv key` and/or `wrangler r2 object` commands to query or write to their data store will need to add the `--remote` flag in order to replicate previous behavior.

> ### Deprecated Commands and Configurations Removed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deprecated commands and configurations removed
```

> All previously deprecated features in [Wrangler v2](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/deprecations/#wrangler-v2) and in [Wrangler v3](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/deprecations/#wrangler-v3) have now been removed. Additionally, the following features that were deprecated during the Wrangler v3 release have been removed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All previously deprecated features in [Wrangler v2](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/deprecations/#wrangler-v2) and in [Wrangler v3](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/deprecations/#wrangler-v3) are now removed. Additionally, the following features that were deprecated during the Wrangler v3 release are also now removed:
```
